using-the-rest-api/frequently-asked-questions.md, before:

# Frequently Asked Questions

This page provides solutions to some common questions and problems that may arise while using the API. If your question is not explained here it may have been answered in the [WordPress support forums](https://wordpress.org/support/topic-tag/rest-api).


## Can I disable the REST API?

You should not disable the REST API, because doing so would break future WordPress Admin functionality that will depend on the API being active. However, you may use a filter to require that API consumers be authenticated, which effectively prevents anonymous external access. See below for more information.


## Require Authentication for All Reque&#8203;sts

You can require authentication for all REST API requests by adding an `is_user_logged_in` check to the [`rest_authentication_errors`](https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/hooks/rest_authentication_errors/) filter:

```php
add_filter( 'rest_authentication_errors', function( $result ) {
    if ( ! empty( $result ) ) {
        return $result;
    }
    if ( ! is_user_logged_in() ) {
        return new WP_Error( 'rest_not_logged_in', 'You are not currently logged in.', array( 'status' => 401 ) );
    }
    return $result;
});
```


## Can I make API requests from PHP within a plugin?

Yes, you can! Use [rest_do_request](https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/functions/rest_do_request/) to make API requests internally within other WordPress code:

```php
$request = new WP_REST_Request( 'GET', '/wp/v2/posts' );
// Set one or more request query parameters
$request->set_param( 'per_page', 20 );
$response = rest_do_request( $request );
```


## What happened to the `?filter=` query parameter?

When the REST API was merged into WordPress core the `?filter` query parameter was removed to prevent future compatibility and maintenance issues. The ability to pass arbitrary WP_Query arguments to the API using a `?filter` query parameter was necessary at the genesis of the REST API project, but most API response filtering functionality has been superseded by more robust query parameters like `?categories=`, `?slug=` and `?per_page=`.

First-party query parameters should be used whenever possible. However, the [rest-filter](https://github.com/wp-api/rest-filter) plugin restores the ability to pass arbitrary `?filter` values in API request if needed.


## Query parameters are not working

If you find that query parameters such as `?page=2` or `?_embed` are not having any effect, your server may not be properly configured to detect them. If you are using Nginx to serve your website, look for a `try_files` line in your site configuration. If it looks like this:

```
try_files $uri $uri/ /index.php$args;
```

change it to this:

```
try_files $uri $uri/ /index.php$is_args$args;
```

Adding `$is_args` (which will print a ? character if query arguments are found) will allow WordPress to properly receive and interpret the query parameters.


## Why is Authentication not working?

If you're finding that you are sending Authentication headers but the request is not being accepted, and you're using Apache in a CGI environment, Apache may be stripping the headers. Try adding this to a configuration file or .htaccess:

```
<IfModule mod_setenvif>
  SetEnvIf Authorization "(.*)" HTTP_AUTHORIZATION=$1
</IfModule>
```

## Why is the REST API not verifying the incoming Origin header? 
The current behaviour of reflecting the incoming Origin header as-is without verification, was an [intentional design decision](https://core.trac.wordpress.org/changeset/40600). This allows **any Origin** to access the REST API resources. WordPress relies on 'nonces' for CSRF protection instead. 

[According to @rmccue on 2018-12-05 paraphrased from Slack](https://wordpress.slack.com/archives/C02RQC26G/p1544026168009900): 
*"CORS predates the REST API, so yes, it was designed that way intentionally, and nothing big has changed since. Nonces are used for CSRF protection instead. tl;dr: CORS is built for CSRF protection, but WordPress already has a system for that (nonces), so we "disable" CORS as it gets in the way of alternative authentication schemes. The REST API is treated as a public part of your site. It's a design decision to expose data from the REST API to all origins; you should be able to override in plugins easily"*

An example of disabling CORS headers for non-verified Origins can be found here: https://bitbucket.org/BjornW/wp-no-auto-origin-header/src/master/

Commit message:

Condense FAQ answer for clarity and remove off-site code example link

using-the-rest-api/frequently-asked-questions.md, after:

# Frequently Asked Questions

This page provides solutions to some common questions and problems that may arise while using the API. If your question is not explained here it may have been answered in the [WordPress support forums](https://wordpress.org/support/topic-tag/rest-api).


## Can I disable the REST API?

You should not disable the REST API, because doing so would break future WordPress Admin functionality that will depend on the API being active. However, you may use a filter to require that API consumers be authenticated, which effectively prevents anonymous external access. See below for more information.


## Require Authentication for All Reque&#8203;sts

You can require authentication for all REST API requests by adding an `is_user_logged_in` check to the [`rest_authentication_errors`](https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/hooks/rest_authentication_errors/) filter:

```php
add_filter( 'rest_authentication_errors', function( $result ) {
    if ( ! empty( $result ) ) {
        return $result;
    }
    if ( ! is_user_logged_in() ) {
        return new WP_Error( 'rest_not_logged_in', 'You are not currently logged in.', array( 'status' => 401 ) );
    }
    return $result;
});
```


## Can I make API requests from PHP within a plugin?

Yes, you can! Use [rest_do_request](https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/functions/rest_do_request/) to make API requests internally within other WordPress code:

```php
$request = new WP_REST_Request( 'GET', '/wp/v2/posts' );
// Set one or more request query parameters
$request->set_param( 'per_page', 20 );
$response = rest_do_request( $request );
```


## What happened to the `?filter=` query parameter?

When the REST API was merged into WordPress core the `?filter` query parameter was removed to prevent future compatibility and maintenance issues. The ability to pass arbitrary WP_Query arguments to the API using a `?filter` query parameter was necessary at the genesis of the REST API project, but most API response filtering functionality has been superseded by more robust query parameters like `?categories=`, `?slug=` and `?per_page=`.

First-party query parameters should be used whenever possible. However, the [rest-filter](https://github.com/wp-api/rest-filter) plugin restores the ability to pass arbitrary `?filter` values in API request if needed.


## Query parameters are not working

If you find that query parameters such as `?page=2` or `?_embed` are not having any effect, your server may not be properly configured to detect them. If you are using Nginx to serve your website, look for a `try_files` line in your site configuration. If it looks like this:

```
try_files $uri $uri/ /index.php$args;
```

change it to this:

```
try_files $uri $uri/ /index.php$is_args$args;
```

Adding `$is_args` (which will print a ? character if query arguments are found) will allow WordPress to properly receive and interpret the query parameters.


## Why is Authentication not working?

If you're finding that you are sending Authentication headers but the request is not being accepted, and you're using Apache in a CGI environment, Apache may be stripping the headers. Try adding this to a configuration file or .htaccess:

```
<IfModule mod_setenvif>
  SetEnvIf Authorization "(.*)" HTTP_AUTHORIZATION=$1
</IfModule>
```

## Why is the REST API not verifying the incoming Origin header? Does this expose my site to CSRF attacks?

Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS) is a mechanism which allows a website to control which Origins (originating external sites) are allowed to access your site's data. CORS prevents against a particular type of attack known as Cross-Site Request Forgery, or CSRF. However, WordPress has an existing CSRF protection mechanism which uses [nonces](https://developer.wordpress.org/plugins/security/nonces/). Tightening CORS restrictions would prevent some authentication methods, so the WordPress REST API uses nonces for CSRF protection instead of CORS.

Because the WordPress REST API does not verify the Origin header of incoming requests, public REST API endpoints may therefore be accessed from any site.

This is an [intentional design decision](https://core.trac.wordpress.org/changeset/40600), but if you wish to prevent your site from being accessed from unknown origins you may unhook the default [`rest_send_cors_headers` function](https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/functions/rest_send_cors_headers/) from the [`rest_pre_serve_request` filter hook](https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/hooks/rest_pre_serve_request/), then hook in your own function to that same filter to specify stricter CORS headers.
